Hello and welcome back to the course and tableau.
And in today's tutorial we will download and connect to the data that will be working within this section.
And we will also learn how to do a join in tableau.
So a very interesting tutorial ahead.
Let's get straight to it.
First of all we'll need a browser.
And as usual we will go to Super daughter signs dot com slash tableau.
And here if you scroll down to Section 4 you will see maps and scatter plots.
And let's just download this file which is amazing Marc.
You say I'm going to save that file to my tableau folder now and once a file is saved I can open up
the folder.
Here you see the file and let's open it up and have a look what's inside.
So there's my file and I'm just zooming in a little bit so we can see a bit better what's going on.
And here you can see first thing that pops in to our attention is that there's three tabs list of orders
order breakdown and sales targets.
So right now we're looking at the very first step.
What is it showing us.
Well this tab is showing us a list of orders.
So these orders this column of the values in this column are unique and every single order it has its
details here on the right.
So when the order is placed who the customer's customer is what's the name of the customer that placed
the order which region of Europe the order was placed in which country in this region.
Which state in the country.
Which city in the state and is also has information on whether this customer is shopping as a consumer
or corporate customer or how or for a Home Office has got the shipping date and the shipping mode.
So basically every single order is described here in detail and every single order is only featured
once in this tab and that's an important observation.
Now if we move on to the second tab we will see order breakdown.
So this tab is different now.
Here we can see that some orders are duplicated for instance these two orders are duplicated.
So it's the same order but it's shown twice.
Well why is that.
And that is because the customer that placed this order actually ordered several items he ordered Boston
markers and Elden folders and then for each item there is a discount the value that was discounted off
the order the sales the profit for the.
For that specific item the quantity and what category it falls under or whether it's office supplies
furniture or technology.
And the subcategory.
So here we can see that every single order is broken down it is itemized into what exactly constitutes
that order.
So we don't we no longer have information on where when the order was placed.
Which region is was shipped into.
But we know what was inside this order.
And so if we go back to the first tab here we will see that in total at the bottom so if I just highlight
the score column you'll see here that there is a count of four thousand one hundred eighteen sells.
So basically because the first sell is the header is four thousand one hundred and seventeen orders
and in order breakdown as we can expect there's more cells.
There's actually eight thousand and forty eight cells so that means eight thousand forty seven items
in total were well constituted.
These orders that were made.
And so that's important to remember that in this tab order idea is unique in this tab or the I.D. is
not unique anymore.
And finally there's another tab called sales targets.
Now in this section of the course we won't focus on the sales type and targets tab.
We'll talk about it in the next section.
So let's leave it for now.
What we will need in our data is we will need to somehow join these two tabs because for us it's not
sufficient to only know where the order went and when it was made and what kind of and who the customer
is.
We also need to know what constituted that specific order.
So the information from this tab and likewise it's not enough for us to know just what constituted an
order because we also need to know who the customer was where it went and when it was placed.
So inevitably we're going to have to work with both these tabs and we need to find a way to combine
them more join them.
So let's see how we can do that in tableau.
I'm just gonna close this Excel file for now.
I don't need to say changes and what we're going to do is we're going to help open up a tableau and
we will connect to this data source so we're going to connect to an excel file.
And here we've got amazing Mart EU open it up and here right away we can see something different to
what we normally used to on the left.
There's actually three sub items that we can choose from and these are the tabs that we just looked
at list of orders order breakdown and sales targets.
So let's have a look at list of orders.
If we drag it into here as we normally do we'll have a preview of the tab that is list of orders which
is fair enough.
Now let's close that and drag order breakdown into this section.
Now we have a preview of the order breakdown tab same thing as we saw just now.
So now what are we going to do how are we going to connect them.
Well tableau has a very convenient functionality it allows you to join these two files and that's exactly
what we're going to do doing we're going to be joining these two tabs.
So let's first do it and then we'll discuss what we did.
First we're going to take a list of orders and will drag it into this part of the data connection manager.
And now we're going to take order breakdown.
And we will also drag it in there but we'll put it to the right of list of orders.
And once you let go you will see automatically that tableau has come up with some sort of icon here
which is signaling to us that these two file two tabs are now connected.
And if we look at preview there is many more columns now.
So these columns here come from the first file that come from a list of orders and then these columns
on the right here.
They come from the second file.
They come from the order breakdown.
And if you click on this connection over here you will see what tableau did tableau did an inner join.
So now if you're not familiar with the term inner join don't worry because in the next section of the
course we will talk in detail about inner joins left joins right joins full outer joins and so on because
it is quite an important topic in Tableau and connecting to data.
But for now we'll just try to understand what exactly did tableau do based on this description or here
you can kind of guess that tableau looked at order the order idea field in this tab and then it looks
at the order idea field in this tab and it matched the two of tabs based on this field.
So basically what that means is for whenever there was an order of X table looks for the same order
idea in this file and attached it to the rows in this file.
So now that we know that the call the order idea field in the first tab is unique and it's not unique
in a second.
What that means is that for every order idea in the first tab there were there might have been several
order ideas in the second tab.
Well in that case what happens is tableau will duplicate the rows from the first tab.
So let's have a look an example of that.
If you scroll down here to the very bottom I notice there is a few here so you as you can see here these
rows are duplicated so you can see and all the information in these columns is identical so tableau
did duplicate these rows and then connect them to the Associated rows in the second tab.
And here the rest of the information is unique of course because these are different items in that second
for the second tab.
So what we did basically is we've created a new structure a new table based on those two data sources
and going forward from here tableau will be working with this table rather than with either of these
and that is a very very powerful feature that means that we've actually modified the data that tableau
will be working for not that we've changed the data we've modified the structure it's no longer two
separate tables it's one table that has been joined and to acknowledge this here will just change the
name from list of orders to plus order breakdown
so if we click just click anywhere here.
Now the connection has been created and if we go to sheet one you'll see our connection here and now
also you can see that tableau has got all the columns as was featured in the data connection but it's
also separated them here to show you which file they are coming from where it's coming from the list
of orders or from the order breakdown file.
So that is how we join in Tableau and once again don't worry if you're not entirely sure or comfortable
of what just what we just did because there'll be a whole section on this stuff very soon in the course.
So just follow along with what we did today and we'll get along with the tableau lost part of the course.
So the visualization part in the section and then we will recap again on joining in adjoins outer joins
and so on and even we'll talk about blending in the next section of the course.
So hope you enjoyed the tutorial and I look forward to seeing you next time.
Until then happy analyzing.